So, welcome to Getting
Player Viewpoint! In this video, we're going to find out where the player
is looking. We'll also be talking about out-parameters, which is where a function
actually changes the parameters you've given it, which is a bit nasty, and we'll find a way of taming
that. We will be marking those out-parameters up with a little macro,
and then, we'll be continuously logging the player viewpoint out every tick,
so that at the end of the video you'll be able to do something like this. Look around and see
P for Pitch there, changing up and down. The Y for your...
The roll won't change because I can't easily rotate my character. OK, see you soon!
So, welcome back! Let's start putting this thing together! So,
David, in a recent discussion, has brought of the fact that should we really be using components as
much as we are? We are slightly overusing components right now, in that
we are adding them to everything willy nilly. That's not the only way to do things. We can
modify the Actor or the Pawn class directly. I'm just trying to reinforce the
use of components, for now. Later in the course, we'll be looking at other ways that we can modify
Actor behavior a certain way. So, let's take a little look
at our code. The first thing we're going to need to do... Well, let's do a bit of pseudo-coding, shall we, as to
what we're going to need to do every frame. So, let's just have a think
about roughly how this is going to work. We're going to need to do something like, "// Get the player
view point
this tick". So, every tick, every frame, we're going to need to get
the player's view point, work out where they are and where they're looking. Then, we're going to do something
like ray-casting, which is basically sending Superman's lasers out of his eyes,
but with just one eye. So, imagine a mono-clopse
Superman, with a little laser firing out. So, "// Ray-case
out to reach distance".
So, that means we're going to need a private variable, at some point,
to store the reach. And then, what are we going to do? And then, we're going to "// See
what we hit" basically, and then, we're going to go on from
there. But look, this is enough to be getting on with. So, what we're going to focus on in this video is getting the
player view point this tick. So, how do we do that? Well,
I can tell you the method, or I can show you how I would find out. So, what we would do is something
like this. By the way, this extension is called Momentum. It's in a Google Chrome
extension called Momentum, pretty in it. So, what we'd do is somthing
like "get player viewpoint unreal".
OK, that search is a little contrived, because I have happened to
have been using almost exactly the right words, but this is the sort of search you'd
do. You'd have a little look through, and you'd start to try and
player camera manager. That one is not helpful.
and start to try and collate an idea as to how people are doing this, and when
you get a consensus... Here you go! It could be this guy here, GetPlayerViewPoint,
and that's asking for a location and a rotation. "Returns Player's
Point of View for the AI... Oh, this should be like a
full stop here. "For the AI this means the Pawn's 'Eyes' View". "For a Human player", which is us,
"this means the Camera's ViewPoint". That's what we need! So, we need GetPlayerView
Point, and then what does that run on? Well, it runs on A
PlayerController, right? So, we've worked out how to get APlayerController
before. So, if you want a micro challenge I'm not going to put a slide up, but why don't
you go and see if you can get the player view point and log it out. If you don't fancy taking
that on, all in one go, then keep watching and I'm going to break that down and then challenge you to just
log it out, to reinforce your logging knowledge. So, a couple of choices for you, depending on where you
are in the course. So, here we go, that's what we need to do! So,
let's first get the world right, because in order to get the first player
controller, we need to get the world first as we discussed by now. So we go and get the
first player controller. Ooh, I've missed a
arrow, a chevron on my arrow there. OK,
and source controller, the
intelli-sense is not helping me yet,
and that's because I've miss spelled. OK, so the moral, by the way,
of that if you're a beginner is that, you really want to make sure you get arrow operator in
and that down here there's no little wiggly thing that says the Visual Studio is still processing,
and then, you can use the auto-complete to prevent you from making errors.
So, GetFirstLocalPlayerFromController() is not quite the right one, so it's Get
FirstPlayerController. There you
go! So that was the Down Arrow I used there to select and then Return to Enter. It's a
method, OK. And then, we need to go in
and say well, what is this new method? Well, this new method is the GetPlayer
ViewPoint. By the way, you don't have to type it in order, you can just say view
point. So another way of discovering this, would be to start at the very beginning
and say OK, how do we do this? Well, how are we going to get the player's
point of view? Well, we need to get the world first, because we're going to do a top-down search, and
then we need to go from the world to what? Well,
I need to get the player, the first player... Ah, that's the one! The FirstPlayer
Controller() and then I'll need to get the view
point. Get player viewpoint, it returns me
a player's point of view. OK, so that's cool!
So let's do that and now let's see what it says and what parameters
it wants. It wants us to pass in an FVector.
It's got an Ampersand, which means that it's a reference. For now, let's just
brush over what references are. They are a bit like pointers, they can't be reassigned
to anything else but they're basically an alias. They are just
like the thing. OK, so it's an FVector reference,
but the bit that's important is that Unreal has named this parameter out_Location
and the same as the rotator. So we're saying, go get the player
view point, but the way that this is asking us to work is it's saying
I'm going to modify the parameters. Isn't this weird?
Look we've got a void getter here! We're saying get and you would expect the
things that you give a getter to specify what you want to go and get, to
tell me something about what I'm going to get but it doesn't. What this does is it says
you give me a couple of parameters, of an FVector and an FRotator, and I...
...like envelopes right, and in those envelopes I will put in
the results and give them back to you. So, the function is void, it returns nothing,
but it changes the input parameters. I actually think that is pretty horrible on two counts.
The word void space Get makes me have one heart attack, and then, the idea that these
are out parameters makes me have a little second heart attack but it's OK we'll live with it!
Let's show you a way of taming this! This is how I'm going to take it! What we're
going to do is, we're going to grab ourselves a couple of variable here. We're going
to declare FVector and I'm going to call it Player
ViewPoint, or maybe with a capital P to be
consistent with them. Location OK and then I'm going to say an FRotator.
PlayerViewPointRotation, so we've
got a couple of variable to store things in. Now, what I want to
do here is, I'm going to pass these in, right, as variables. Now, the line is getting too long, so you're
allowed to split your line down to something like this. When you've
got multiple parameters or long parameters it's perfectly OK to just
split things away like that
OK, but I don't like the fact that I am actually changing
these two values. When we come to log down here, "// Log
out to test". So, this is a TODO a temporary TODO.
Then, I don't like the fact that I've made a variable here and then I'm changing it
by making a function call, so there's lots of ways of taming this beast.
Eventually you'll just get used to the fact that you need to be very careful about whether parameters are out parameters.
At least Unreal has told us, by putting
out underscore, that this is going to change the getter, the void getter
is going to change the parameters that come in. I can't even believe that I'm saying this, but we're dealing with an engine
here and we can't change that. So, this is what I do, I like to come up
top here, and we can say #define
OUT. This is a blank macro of our own. We're saying don't
do anything with that, but let's hash define the word OUT. Now, what I can do here
is I can mark these parameters without, and actually, if I was to type
it slowly and wait for Visual Studio to catch up... This is the little whirligig I meant, down at the bottom here,
telling us that Visual Studio is still parsing files in the solution. Then, as I start to type
out, I know it's a very short word, but it will actually give you completion on that
and it'll give you syntax highlighting. So, all I've done there is mark
there with a macro that does nothing. Out does absolutely nothing.
In the pre-processor, when we run when we compile just before it compiles the code,
it will substitute out with absolutely nothing, i.e. just remove it, but it does
allow us to annotate to remind ourselves, for now, that that's what's going on.
OK, what I want you to do is log out to test that this is working
I want you to continuously log out every tick, so that's going to be your challenge.
Log the viewpoint every tick. Log a viewpoint position and direction every
tick. Hint: You may need to use ToString() somewhere. Get used to working with different data
types, and give it at least 20 minutes if you're struggling if you're new to coding,
and then carry on watching for my solution. So pause the video and get that logging out now!
OK welcome back! So, let's get this buttoned up! Relatively simple,
we're going to use a UE_LOG() macro, and then, the category
name is going to be (Log Temp) for now. We'll start thinking about making our own categories when we need to.
The verbosity is Warning, so it comes up in yellow, and then, we have this strange
TEXT()) formatter we have to send in. Now, whether or not we put a semicolon on the end doesn't
matter, actually, because the UE_LOG macro doesn't care but there you
go. I'm going to not put a semicolon on the end, because it's a macro.
OK, so there's really not any right or wrong, so it depends
on how the macro is written. It's a bit odd but there you go, that's macros for you.
UE_LOG, TEXT, let's just write a quick test here,
just to make sure that the log is even working and that all the code we have written so
far is working. So, I'm just going to build what I've got, which is basically nothing
apart from I have gone and got the world and I am logging nothing
yet, but I'm checking all the code around this works. Test test test test test
every frame good! So that's working! Now let's just get it working!
So, I'm going to say that the ("Location:  is some
string and that the Position
is some other string. Then, after the
brackets, we put in Player
ViewPointLocation). Now, what is this type? It
is an FVector. Do we have a .ToString? Yes we do
and that's a method. OK, now we got too long, it's on too many lines, so
I'm going to go over to the next line here. I'm going to indent that just because
it's just for style, and then, I'm going to put in the second parameter here. Player
ViewPointRotation.To
String() and let's try this!
We're going to get a lot of logs here!
OK, so it doesn't like that! What is it
about it that it doesn't like? It's quite likely that it doesn't like the formatting
of our spaces. The other thing
that it may not like is, remember that this log wants a T
star pointer, that really weird error that this log has.
It's not this lack of semicolon, we tested that a moment ago. I wanted to prove to you that we don't need
semicolons, but it's the fact that it actually doesn't want an FString. It wants
a pointer to a T char, so we need to do a star as we've seen
before, excuse the guess there, to dereference. And once
we've done that star, then it should build. And it does! Let's test it works
and then I'll re-layout the code. There you go! Now as I move around, watch what happens
here. You see my position and my location...
[Laughs] OK, I've said position and position! Look a me! Let's fix that!
Rotation.
And now that we have broken down the fact that the error
wasn't the spacing, the macro probably can handle this white space,
then we can re lay it out like that, which is probably nicer and easier to read, right.
So, all fixed now! Let's see! Builds, I'm showing you the
process. You know this is messy success, sloppy success. Look at that, rotation
is working in the Y in the P. OK
yep, that's fine! And I can't yaw here, so Pitch. This makes it clear, you see the Pitch
changing there? P up Pitch up 90, Pitch 0,
Pitch 270, that's Pitch axis! This is the
Yaw axis, you see the Y the pitch is changing slowly but the Y is changing fast, and
Roll, well we can't easily roll the actor. Roll would be where we
tilt the horizon left and right. So that's it, we have actually managed to
get the viewpoint of this pawn as we move around, which is pretty cool!